OSDOCS#5661: Reorganizing required gcp permissions (#58172)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-gcp-permissions.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:template:
endif::[]

[id="installation-gcp-permissions_{context}"]
= Required GCP roles

When you attach the `Owner` role to the service account that you create, you grant that service account all permissions, including those that are required to install {product-title}. If your organization's security policies require a more restrictive set of permissions, you can create a service account with the following permissions. If you deploy your cluster into an existing virtual private cloud (VPC), the service account does not require certain networking permissions, which are noted in the following lists:

.Required roles for the installation program
* Compute Admin
* IAM Security Admin

> * Service Account Admin

Reviewer: Suggest to move `Service Account Key Admin` after the `Service Account Admin`, so as to order alpha-numerically, thanks!

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-account"]
:ipi:
endif::[]

[id="installation-gcp-permissions_{context}"]
= Required GCP roles

> When you attach the `Owner` role to the service account that you create, you grant that service account all permissions, including those that are required to install {product-title}. To deploy an {product-title} cluster, the service account requires the following permissions. If you deploy your cluster into an existing virtual private cloud (VPC), the service account does not require certain networking permissions, which are noted in the following lists:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you attach the `Owner` role to the service account that you create, you grant that service account all permissions, including those that are required to install {product-title}. If your organization's security policies require a more restrictive set of permissions, you can create a service account with the following permissions. If you deploy your cluster into an existing virtual private cloud (VPC), the service account does not require certain networking permissions, which are noted in the following lists:
```
Suggestion to add this bit of context

ifdef::template[]
.Required roles for user-provisioned GCP infrastructure
* Deployment Manager Editor

> * Service Account Key Admin

Reviewer 3: @xenolinux Any reason why `Service Account Key Admin` was removed from **Required roles for user-provisioned GCP infrastructure**?

Author: @jianli-wei suggested so because `Service Account Key Admin` was listed in both places - "Required roles for user-provisioned GCP infrastructure" and "optional roles".

Reviewer 3: @jianli-wei would it make sense to remove the "Optional roles" and add `Service Account Key Admin` back to **Required roles for user-provisioned GCP infrastructure**?

Author: @arkadeepsen I think @jianli-wei had suggested the same.

Author: I mistakenly removed from required....

Author: Addressed as suggested.

Reviewer 3: @xenolinux I think you need to add ifeval for IPI separately for `Optional roles`. Also `Required roles for user-provisioned GCP infrastructure` should not be displayed for IPI. The existing ifdef should not be removed.

Author: Addressed

.Required roles for user-provisioned GCP infrastructure
* Deployment Manager Editor

> * Service Account Key Admin

Reviewer: Per the permissions section `Required permissions for creating Service Account resources` [1], I think we should move the role `Service Account Key Admin` to the section `Required roles for the installation program` [2] instead, for both IPI and UPI. Thanks!  

[1] the related permissions listed in `Required permissions for creating Service Account resources`:
- iam.serviceAccountKeys.create
- iam.serviceAccountKeys.delete
- iam.serviceAccountKeys.get
- iam.serviceAccountKeys.list

[2] none existing role listed in `Required roles for the installation program` have all the above permissions

[jiwei@jiwei ~]$ gcloud iam roles describe **roles/compute.admin** | grep iam.serviceAccountKeys
[jiwei@jiwei ~]$ gcloud iam roles describe **roles/iam.securityAdmin** | grep iam.serviceAccountKeys
\- iam.serviceAccountKeys.list
[jiwei@jiwei ~]$ gcloud iam roles describe **roles/iam.serviceAccountAdmin** | grep iam.serviceAccountKeys
[jiwei@jiwei ~]$ gcloud iam roles describe **roles/iam.serviceAccountUser** | grep iam.serviceAccountKeys
[jiwei@jiwei ~]$ gcloud iam roles describe **roles/storage.admin** | grep iam.serviceAccountKeys
[jiwei@jiwei ~]$ 

_FYI_
[jiwei@jiwei ~]$ gcloud iam roles describe **roles/iam.serviceAccountKeyAdmin** | grep iam.serviceAccountKeys
\- iam.serviceAccountKeys.create
\- iam.serviceAccountKeys.delete
\- iam.serviceAccountKeys.disable
\- iam.serviceAccountKeys.enable
\- iam.serviceAccountKeys.get
\- iam.serviceAccountKeys.list
[jiwei@jiwei ~]$
